Our friend was kidnapped.
Is there a ransom demand?
This woman named Billie
demanded this relic.
It's supposed to lead to a treasure.
That's what Peter Sadusky told me.
He actually died not long after.
And it was maybe
under mysterious circumstances.
You ordered a toxicology report
concerning Peter Sadusky's death.
You want me to cancel
the toxicology report?
Let's give the man some dignity.
This is a real deal
Holyfield treasure hunt.
You can't take risks like this.
You could get deported.
Your father's medallion was worn
by a secret network
of treasure protectors.
These look like sections of a map.
I think I have something
you're gonna wanna see.
My dad died hunting this treasure.
This is what started it all.
The author of this paper is...
my mom.
Oh, god.
Our friendship really needs
a snooze button.
Where's your old mini DV camcorder?
I don't know, in a box somewhere.
Uh, who are you?
Uh, Liam.
Tasha's rebound.
He's with me.
Oh.
Poor Ethan.
- Who's Ethan?
- A friend.
Uh, what do you need my camera for?
I think my mom's on this.
I think she knew about the treasure.
THESIS DEFENSE DOCTORATE 1999
Whoa, check out your mom.
She's so young.
Good morning.
Uh, are there subtitles?
I got it.
Thousands of years ago,
before the Europeans arrived,
a bunch of independent tribes
spanned the Americas.
Some of them pass their history
and culture down through textiles and art.
Whenever war broke out,
some of the women fled
with their sacred objects
so their history would be preserved.
Over time, a treasure grew
until the greatest threat arrived.
The conquistadors.
I know who I'm rooting for.
Not the conquistadors, okay?
I'm pro-Goddess. Do not cancel me.
But there was one brave woman
who risked her life to save the treasure
from the conquistadors.
Malinche.
An enslaved Nahua teenager
who was forced to work
for Hernán Cortés as a translator.
Over the last 200 years,
her name has been dragged through the mud
for helping the Spanish
slaughter indigenous peoples
in their quest for gold.
But the truth is,
Malinche used her position
in Cortes's camp
to keep one eye on the conquistadors
while her underground alliance of women
could smuggle the treasure away.
So Malinche was a master spy.
Like Brian O'Conner from Fast and Furious.
Jess, they're all
wearing your necklace.
That necklace represents an ancient oath
to unbury the lost history
of entire civilizations.
If your father had that necklace,
then he was protecting the treasure.
And so must you.
These women called themselves
the Daughters of the Plumed Serpent.
Once the treasure was hidden,
the women created a treasure map
and broke it into three pieces,
giving one each to the Aztec,
Inca, and Maya,
with the idea that once the conquistadors
were vanquished,
they would come together again
to rejoin the pieces of the map
and find the treasure.
Please tell me she said where it was.
The three pieces of the map
were lost over time.
Yeah.
And what's Professor Mansplainer saying?
They're saying her dissertation
is fantasy.
That every scholar agrees
the Inca and Mesoamerican civilizations
never communicated,
let alone work together
to hide a great treasure.
And that Malinche wasn't a hero,
that she was a traitor,
at best, a powerless victim.
Professor with all due respect, but...
I like this guy's energy.
- Who's he?
- That's...
That's my dad.
I thought your parents
didn't like each other.
Me too.
Sounds like he's got a lot of skin
in the game.
He's defending her.
My dad is saying he and my mom
are gonna prove the legend is real
by... by finding the treasure.
Ah. My lady.
Oh.
I love you.
I've never even heard
his voice before.
And to see them dancing.
I guess it was pretty dumb to think
there wasn't a time when they were...
In love?
Those dudes wouldn't even listen
to your mom.
She was dropping treasure knowledge.
Well, my dad listened to her.
I always thought he was chasing a dream.
But... you have the necklace.
That means our families
weren't crazy.
The treasure is real.
Treasure?
I thought you were done with all that.
This is Agent Ross.
Hi, this is Dr. Zeke Hudson
from the city morgue.
Did you order this panel
on Peter Sadusky?
I did, yes. Uh, do you have the results?
Yeah. Uh, I just need an e-signature
on the release before I can send it out.
No, you know, I'd rather come down
in person and sign, and then
we can go through those results together.
Uh, sure. Yeah.
Is 10:00 a.m. okay?
- Yeah. I'll be there.
- Ross.
Hey, thanks for going through
all those statements.
I know that's tedious work.
- It's no problem, sir.
- Yeah.
Listen. Uh, I know how you're feeling.
When I was first stationed in D.C.
back in the Mesozoic era,
I failed to act on a tip
that the Declaration of Independence
was about to be stolen.
That was you?
Yeah. That was me.
And like you,
I was eager to make up for it.
It affected my judgment.
Luckily, I had a good boss
who believed in me.
I believe in you, Ross.
Mm.
I love you.
I don't understand.
There's more. Look at this.
♪ Sleep, precious child ♪
Wait.
That's your mom's lullaby?
There is a second verse she never sang.
"You can sleep, precious child.
Our treasure is safe.
Till we rise again tomorrow."
The lullaby passed down
the legend of the treasure.
Whoa.
Did I tell you Billie was a black market
antiquities dealer?
Which means if she finds a treasure,
it'll wind up in the hands
of some sketchy, rich collector.
And no one will know my mom was right.
Where do we start?
Whoa.
This is cooler than any room
on any episode of Cribs I've ever seen.
Including Mariah's house.
You really undersold clue room.
Yo, look.
Look, it's the panel
from the Resolute Desk.
Ben Franklin glasses.
Oh, my god.
Your grandpa is the redacted FBI agent
in Riley Poole's podcast.
Yeah, I'm not really a podcast guy.
It says "do not touch."
Cool, cool, cool.
Love this clue room.
Don't get me wrong, uh, but I'm not seeing
a map with an "X Marks the Spot" anywhere.
The treasure map's on the three boxes.
We find them, we find the treasure.
Obsidian.
Jade.
Blue Lapis.
Well, Billie took the obsidian box,
but Tasha Fierce got pics.
My, uh... My grandpa found this one.
That's Cibola.
Great. Where is it?
He gave it to my dad.
Two days later,
he died in a diving accident.
It's never been seen again.
That's sad.
So... we're at a dead end.
Pretty much.
I mean, we got this one clue
in the third box,
my grandpa and dad
were never able to crack.
"A message was passed to the Sun King
born to Peace."
Where'd they get this?
Dad was a Mason, grandpa was a Mason.
I'm guessing they got it from the Masons.
Okay.
The Sun King.
You know who's called the Sun King?
- Louis XIV.
His parents were married
as a political allegiance.
Strengthening ties between France
and the Iberian Union.
Louisiana was named after him.
You think the message he was passed
might be in Louisiana?
Or in what was the Louisiana territory.
But why would any indigenous person
give a clue to a French king?
Uh, Jess, who is Salazar?
And should we beware of him?
No idea.
It was just a loose paper in there.
Come on. There's gotta be
another Sun King.
Maybe it's not a real king.
What? Like the Lion King?
LeBron! King James.
I was thinking the King of Rock and Roll.
Elvis?
Yes. His label was Sun Records.
Whoa, whoa!
That makes sense.
Elvis was totally a mason. Here.
When he met President Nixon,
he was doing a secret Mason handshake.
And as you know, Elvis is mixed up
in all sorts of conspiracies.
- You mean was.
- Do I?
You want a more fun fact than that one?
Uh, Elvis was Cherokee.
His three times great grandmother
was Cherokee.
Her name was Morning Dove White.
Dove.
The symbol of peace.
That's why peace is capitalized.
It's a person.
"North American tribes
like the Puebloans in the Southwest
and the Cherokee in the Southeast
were rumored to have helped
the Daughters of the Plumed Serpent."
So Morning Dove had a clue
and passed it down.
Not knowing that her great, great,
great grandson would become Elvis.
His favorite guitar
was called The Ebony Dove.
So what you're saying is Elvis put a clue
to an ancient treasure on a guitar?
If you're gonna hide a clue
to an ancient treasure on something,
it makes sense to pick something...
That would become a museum piece...
- at Graceland.
- At Graceland.
Yeah. The only problem is
I don't see any mention of that guitar
on Graceland inventory.
Well, it's gotta be in Elvis's
secret room.
The secret room at Graceland.
Y'all don't know about this.
Am I the only one who cares about history?
All the most valuable and secret
Elvis stuff is stored in a hidden room.
No one's allowed in.
No one's even allowed to know where it is.
They let Oprah in once
and she had to be blindfolded.
Oprah.
So all we have to do
is find a guitar that may not exist.
By breaking into a room
that may not exist.
Yeah.
And I think I know how to do it.
Apparently,
Jess Valenzuela has quite the bio.
It's a real rags-to-rags story here.
She was born in Mexico,
grew up in Baton Rouge,
a scholarship student at Oak Prep,
and she was the first DACA recipient
to graduate valedictorian.
And she had her pick
of any college, Harvard, Yale.
And then her mom gets sick,
so she gives up university
to take care of her until she dies.
And all of that she's left with
is a stack of medical bills
to remember her by.
Yet, she refused my offer.
And I would have paid her bills.
Why?
Kids these days,
they don't care about money.
They just want more and more followers.
Find a treasure, baby, you famous.
This thing is ingenious.
Magnetized lodestone acted like a compass.
That's what unlocked the dials.
Safe cracking 101.
That girl opened this.
I'm still not sure why Sadusky told her,
but he inadvertently gave us
a very big clue.
We were looking for clues
to the treasure map on the outside,
and we should have been looking
in the inside.
Thank you.
Let's take a look on the inside
of this one, shall we?
- You're new at the field office.
- Yup.
And you're running point on this?
- Yes, I am.
- Huh.
Your boss must have a lot of faith in you.
You're investigating the death
of a decorated agent.
Okay, here's the situation. Um...
I was actually supposed to cancel
that tox report,
but I got a tip that Peter Sadusky died
under mysterious circumstances,
so I disregarded the order.
You can report me now if you want.
Or you could tell me what you found.
All right. Don't get too ahead
of yourself.
Unfortunately,
the panel is inconclusive,
but it's very suspicious.
That's a lot of unknown substances.
Yeah.
But given his age,
he's probably taken quite a few meds.
Mm.
And there was an orange stain on his hand.
So he was clutching something
in his hand when he died?
Could be. Looks like a common dye.
Something used in over-the-counter meds,
even candy.
If I got you a list of his meds,
could you whittle down this list?
Not that either of us
are working on this case.
Yeah, I mean,
the last thing I'd want is to be part
of a juicy murder investigation.
Mm.
Thank you.
Two boxes, 12 pieces.
And we have two-thirds of the map.
And look at this.
Iztaccihuatl.
The White Woman Mountains.
- You can see here.
- That's a jaguar head.
The Aztecs used
to call that "earth monster."
Signifies the entrance to a sacred place.
That totally tracks
the White Woman Mountains
and they're right outside of Mexico City.
Is that where the third box is?
Mm, we don't know until we get there.
♪ Oh, you make me wanna break the rules ♪
Well, call me Deadliest Catch
because Mark took the bait
in my fishing expedition.
- Mark?
- The head of security.
You phished
the head of Graceland's security.
It's not my fault he can't resist
a promo code for Labradoodle breath bones.
What? His doodles have
their own Instagram page.
Let's go over the plan.
Uh, no. Are you kidding?
Have you ever seen a movie
where they do a heist?
You cannot go over the plan.
Something just guaranteed to go wrong.
That's not how reality works.
At 1:00 p.m.,
they open the display cases for cleaning.
- Then it's you, Oren.
- No.
I will not be a part of this clear effort
to jinx our mission.
Dude, all you gotta do
is release the moths.
And the second they see the moths
on the priceless jumpsuits,
they'll call the exterminators.
So we're all just on board with moths
turning Elvis's jumpsuits
into Swiss cheese?
They're not that kind of moth.
There's more than one type of moth?
I worked at Almighty Storage.
Pretty much a moth expert.
We got the non-clothes-eating type.
So we got 13 minutes
to get in and out of the secret room
before the real exterminators show up.
Thirteen minutes, that's very specific.
What's your source on that?
- Yelp.
- Hey, dudes...
I still think I should be the one
to go in.
We've been over this.
Let's stick to the plan.
Liam is a guitar expert.
Anything out of place on that axe,
I'll know it.
Hey, uh, people...
Oren, we're not going to jinx it.
Oh, really?
'Cause now there's someone following us.
Brown Chrysler on the left.
- It's Billie?
- Or her minions.
- Dude, outrun them!
- Do I look like I got NOS in here?
My baby don't race.
Pull over and see what they do.
Anyone recognize him?
Not me.
Maybe it was the Salazar guy.
He was probably just some bearded rando
on his way to a vinyl sale.
Yeah.
Let's get back on the road.
You guys...
...need to get into character.
♪ Ooh, well, I got a girl
with a record machine ♪
♪ When it comes to rockin'
she's the queen ♪
♪ We love to dance on a Saturday night ♪
♪ All alone where I can hold her tight ♪
♪ But she lives
on the twentieth floor uptown ♪
♪ The elevator's broken down ♪
♪ So I'll walk one, two flight
three flight, four ♪
♪ Five, six, seven flight
eight flight, more ♪
♪ Up on the twelfth I'm startin' to drag ♪
♪ Fifteenth floor I'm a-ready to sag ♪
♪ Get to the top, I'm too tired to rock ♪
Why are they all dusty?
They're actually tiny scales, not dust.
What?
I was up till 2:00 in the morning
doing research about moths
to prepare for my role.
What's to prepare?
We show up and pretend to kill bugs.
You sure you're good?
Me?
Yeah. Oh, yeah. Um...
For your mom.
And all that gold.
We are in the building.
Uh, Oren, it's almost
1:00... They're gonna open the case.
Tasha,
you're giving me performance anxiety.
Let's go. Black kicks on the move.
Excuse us, everybody, please.
Out of the way. Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Mm.
- Good?
- Yes. Of course.
- Okay, let's go next.
- Okay.
Excuse me.
Hi. Question.
Uh, did Elvis...
Is that a moth?
And that's the call
to the exterminator.
Sync timers.
You ready?
Three, two, one, go.
Clock's ticking, 13 minutes.
Who are you guys?
Where's Tim?
- We, uh--
- You must be Mark, right?
Uh, yeah.
We're subcontracting for Tim.
He's on a big job right now
but he knew this was an emergency.
He mentioned you've got a Labradoodle?
Two.
Hound Dog and Blue Suede.
Got one myself. Name's Jolene.
Follow us.
Oh. Okay.
Meet Tineola bisselliella.
Your common webbing clothes moth.
This little guy likes to feed
on animal fibers, leather, wool.
Oh, my god. We can't close to fumigate.
It's Jailhouse Week.
Oh, no need for that.
Just let us take a look around.
And we should start
in dark storage spaces.
- Moths love that.
- Mm-hm.
Okay. Mark, you take Arin to "the room".
And, Dean, you come with me.
Oh, we actually prefer to work in tandem.
Oh, it's too much ground to cover
all at once.
I'd rather do this quickly. Okay?
Come, come.
Um, splitting up wasn't
a part of the plan.
This way.
- Let's go.
- Yes, sir.
He must have gone underground.
Normally, we blindfold anyone
before we bring them down here.
I'll have you sign an NDA
before you leave today.
You know what that is?
Non-disclosure thing means
anything you saw here today,
you didn't see.
Well, if there are moths in here,
they'll leave a yellow dust-like pollen
on the jumpsuits.
I'm gonna need to inspect them.
Mission accomplished.
It was hella stressful, but I did it.
I am donezo.
Jess...
The real exterminators are here.
He's early.
Oh, man, I knew it.
I called it.
- Y'all jinxed it.
- Oren, go stall him.
- Me?
- Now!
There you go.
They're all clear. Moth free.
We're all good here.
Is... Is there a restroom I could use?
- Hey, Mr. Exterminator.
- Who are you?
I'm the hotel manager.
We got a Defcon-10 moth situation
over here
if you just follow me.
- Yeah, but Mark said we're in the mansion.
- And, Mark...
I'm the one who told Mark to call you.
Let's check the velvet paintings
and the guest room next.
Absolutely.
Uh, I just need to grab another battery
from the truck.
I'll be right back.
I'll be back. One second.
Hey.
Did he get the pics?
- Oh, nice guitar.
- Yeah, but nothing looks like a clue.
Maybe it's the wrong Sun King.
Elvis's gold record of "La Paloma".
That single never went gold.
"La Paloma" means "dove".
That's gotta be it.
I got the exterminator
all the way to the hotel and ran for it.
- Did I miss something?
- We all did.
We gotta go back in.
Get that record.
Uh, did you not just hear what I said?
The exterminator is back.
Uh, everyone
is gonna be looking for us.
We will all be arrested.
Jess, what are you doing?
- I have to know the truth about my dad.
- Uh...
- Hey, I'll go with you.
- Not like this.
- We'll find another way.
- There is no other way.
They're gonna shut this place down.
It's now or never.
Jess.
All right, I got her.
Where's Jess?
I got the pics. What's he doing?
They were just here.
Okay. Somebody talk to me.
Where'd those exterminators go?
I'll check right now, sir. Copy.
No. She can't do that.
You be lookout. I'm going in.
Okay.
There's a code panel to get into the room.
- You need to get out of there.
- Did you see it? The code?
No. He blocked the panel.
- Come on.
- How many beeps?
Uh...
Eight. But you don't have time
to figure it out. Come on.
Eight digits, that could be anything.
- You didn't hire these guys?
- No, I don't subcontract.
We let them into the secret room.
I'm calling the police
to make sure nothing was taken.
I was with him the entire time.
He didn't take anything.
Well, he was in there for something.
Eight digits?
That's a date.
Day, month, four-digit year.
What's Elvis's birthday?
Zero, one, zero, eight, 19, 35.
No.
The day of his comeback show?
One, two, zero, three, 19, 68.
No.
Excuse me.
- Sorry.
- I'm taking our picture one more time...
What?
Hey. Hey, man, can I borrow that?
Not his anniversary.
Not the day he met Nixon.
What is it?
The day he bought Graceland.
March 25th, 1957.
Please.
♪ Mmm, mmm, mmm ♪
♪ Hmm ♪
♪ We're caught in a trap ♪
♪ I can't walk out ♪
♪ Because I love you too much, baby ♪
♪ We can't go on together ♪
- Whoo!
-♪ With suspicious minds ♪
Uh, Mark, we've got a situation.
♪ We can't go on together ♪
♪ With suspicious minds ♪
The singing tourist? Yeah, I know.
I'm on my way.
♪ Oh, let our love survive ♪
♪ I'll dry the tears from your eyes ♪
♪ We can't let a good thing die ♪
♪ When, honey, you know I've never ♪
♪ Lied ♪
♪ Mmm ♪
♪ Yeah, yeah ♪
You enjoying the show?
♪ Mmm ♪
Go get him!
♪ We're caught in a trap ♪
Let's go.
- Excuse us. Sorry.
-♪ I can't walk out ♪
Excuse us.
Sorry, folks, gotta get through.
♪ Because I love you too much, baby ♪
♪ Don't you know ♪
♪ We're caught in a trap ♪
♪ I can't walk out ♪
♪ Because I love you too much, baby ♪
What do you think you're doing?
All right.
We need to clear this room, people.
Everybody, please start heading out
that door behind me.
I am so sorry, sir.
The only English he speaks is Elvis songs.
He gets out of control when he sings them.
Get him out of here.
Put him on the "No Fly" list.
They're gonna check the feeds.
Nope, I got this.
- Was anything stolen?
- Not that I can see.
Check the security footage.
They're about to get ghosted.
Oh, no.
No.
It's all gone.
♪ Let's rock, rock, rock, man, rock ♪
♪ We're gonna rock till you pop
we're gonna rock till you drop ♪
♪ We're gonna rock this town
rock it inside out ♪
♪ Whoo! ♪
- That was insane.
- Dude, that was epic!
You sang an Elvis song at Graceland.
Yeah. Now I'm gonna be banned for life.
The plan was not to draw attention.
- You speak Spanish?
- Yeah.
Summer bartending at Señor Frog's.
Did you at least get the clue?
Yeah, I think so.
Check it out.
No wonder that record didn't go gold.
Why go through all the trouble
of making a fake gold record?
It has to mean something.
We can mess with it
on some music software.
Try to see if there's a hidden message
or something.
- Yeah.
We'll figure it out.
Look at these symbols.
That's Incan.
Oh.
Now these are Aztec.
Mayan.
Mm.
The Daughters of the Plumed Serpent
were here.
I'll get the drone.
Mictlan.
That's a good thing, right?
Well, it's the underworld
of Aztec mythology.
- Oh, damn it.
- Black Hawk down, Nate.
I'll go get it.
Xibalba.
Mayan underworld.
Nate, hang on a moment.
It's okay. I can see the drone.
It's right up there.
Don't take another step.
Nate!
- No, no, no, no, no!
- Nate!
Nate!
- No, no, let me go!
- Let's go.
Let me go! He could still be alive!
No!
Listen to me. Listen to me.
He's gone.
This is all a trap. We need to go.
We need to go right now.
Come on, let's go!
Hey.
Oh, hey, Ethan.
Jess isn't here. She's...
She's working on that sound file.
Yeah, I know.
I came to talk to you, actually.
Okay.
It's unexpected, but I'm listening.
I... I just want to make sure
you understand
how careful we have to be with Jess.
You know, she can't break the law. And...
I watched you lead her into Graceland
to steal a record.
Oh, she led herself.
And I'm not gonna tell a woman
what she can and can't do.
That's not what I'm saying.
I'm just saying we have to look out
for her.
How about I do me, and you do you?
Look, you don't know her.
She's not going to stop.
This is about her family.
It is personal to her.
Yeah, well, this is about my family, too.
All right?
We've both got skin in the game
and we're both gonna have to take risks.
And if you're not cool with that,
then maybe you should bail.
It's not the same for you
as it is for her.
You're not listening to me.
- It's exactly the same--
- She is undocumented.
I shouldn't have said that.
Look, she has DACA.
So if she gets into any trouble,
she can lose her status and be deported.
So it's not as easy as "you do you."
For digital data,
one of the simplest techniques
is performed in a time domain
or the waveform is perturbed
by modulating the least significant bit.
Decoding...
Hey.
What's wrong?
So I went to tell Liam
he can't be so reckless around you
and it just came out.
What just came out?
I told Liam you have DACA.
Whatever. You told me.
You made a mistake. It's okay.
I know it's not okay.
If I say it's okay, it's okay.
Yeah. Okay.
I'll let you get back
to what you're doing.
Hey, great. Just in time.
I know Ethan told you
about me having DACA.
And I really wish he hadn't.
Now go easy on him.
He was just trying
to have your back.
You guys are obviously really close.
He's my oldest friend.
Which is why he should have known better.
Look...
I... I would have tried to talk you out
of going in there
had I known what you're risking.
See, this is exactly why
I don't tell people right away.
Because it changes how they treat me.
Some tell me to go back to my country
and they call me illegal.
Others have really good intentions
and wanna help and protect me
like I'm a puppy.
- Jess, that's not what I meant.
- I know.
Nobody ever does.
I'm just saying it's really easy for it
to be the only thing
people see about me, but...
It's not who I am.
Then who are you?
If you asked me that a week ago,
I could have answered that.
But now...
everything I thought I knew about my mom,
my dad,
my whole family, for that matter,
is a crazy riddle that can only be solved
by finding this treasure.
You know anything about steganography?
Only that the YouTube videos
are super confusing.
Hey, so I put the audio file you recorded
through a high-pass filter
and shifted the pitch down.
Just listen. Here.
Sorry. Speakers broken.
It sounds like
somebody's talking backwards.
Did you flip it?
I was waiting for you.
All right. Here it goes.
I've got a message
from Miss Morning Dove White.
"The twin-tongued serpent's tail...
...is revealed
-in fair weather...
- That's Elvis.
...by the bend in the new found land."
- Well, play it again.
- Yeah.
I've got a message
from Miss Morning Dove White.
"The twin-tongued serpent's tail
is revealed
in fair weather by the bend
in the new found land."
Maybe there is no treasure.
Maybe the daughters of the Plumed Serpent
just put all these clues out there
to keep the conquistadors busy
and lure them into traps.
Nelson Mandela once said,
"Don't judge me by my success,
judge me by how many times I fall down
and get back up again."
Cras Est Nostrum.
To Nate.
I've got a message
from Miss Morning Dove White.
"The twin-tongued serpent's tail
is revealed
in fair weather by the bend
in the new found land."
Is that...
Elvis?
That is a clue.